\section{Protocol}
\label{sec:protocol}

We describe a base secure publish-process-subscribe protocol first, for ease of
understanding and reasoning about security, followed by extensions for reducing
communication and efficiently handling malicious publishers disrupting the
computation.  We present a simulator for the base protocol to prove that a real
world adversary cannot do more harm then a simulator can do in the ideal world
(Definition~\ref{def:security}). We also describe security of extensions. We
describe our system in Section~\ref{sec:system}, which is not a mere
implementation of our protocol. We developed a range of system techniques, such
as, developing a new high-level functional language to describe computations
and generate circuits, extending garbled circuits library libgarble, identity
gates to make our protocol compatible with FreeXOR optimization, and establish
authenticated and encrypted channel on top of MQTT. 

We assume direct authenticated encrypted channels in this section.  However, in
our system, publishers and subscribers communicate directly only with \broker
and communicate indirectly with \garbler through \broker as showing in
Figure~\ref{fig:pps-out}. This allows us to implement our protocol on top of
MQTT.

\subsection{Base Protocol}
\input{base_protocol}

The base protocol uses direct communication with \garbler for ease of
explanation; publishers and subscribers in our system communicate with \garbler
only through \broker. This ensures compatibility with a standard topic-based
publish-subscribe system where publishers and subscribers communicate only
through \broker.

Each new publisher initializes by sending its \policy specifying allowed
computations on its data. To subscribe computation $C$, a subscriber sends a
subscription request to \broker.  To publish a value, publisher generates two
wire labels $w_0$ and $w_1$ for every bit $b$ of the value, sends both labels
$w_0$ and $w_1$ to \garbler, and only $w_b$ to \broker. \broker waits for a
specified time period to receive all input wire labels after which \broker
requests \garbler to garble the circuit for $XOR \circ C$.  A malicious
publisher can send inconsistent labels for a wire to \broker and \garbler,
e.g., $w_0$ and $w_1$ to \garbler and a random wire label $w_r$ to \broker.
Inconsistent labels prevent \garbler from correctly evaluating the garbled
circuit. We use private-set-intersection-cardinality (PSI-C) to determine
inconsistent labels. \garbler hard-wires nullifying values for publishers who
sent at least $1$ inconsistent label and publishers who didn't sent labels to
either \broker or \garbler. \garbler garbles the circuit such that evaluating
it outputs a masked output and send it to \broker.  Therefore, when \broker
evaluates the garbled circuit, it only learns a masked output, which it
forwards to $C$'s subscribers. \garbler sends the output mask to $C$'s
subscribers, who can then unmask the output.

\subsection{Security Proof of Base Protocol}
We describe a simulator \Sim that simulates the view of the \Adv in the real
world execution of our base protocol of Figure~\ref{fig:baseprotocol}. Our
security definition~\ref{def:security} and simulator \Sim ensures both
confidentiality and correctness.

The interesting case is when a subset of publishers are malicious and are
colluding with honest-but-curious \broker. \garbler is non-colluding
honest-but-curious. A malicious subscriber only receives output; it can only
reveal its own output, which is also possible in the ideal world execution.\\[6pt]
\input{simulator}

\subsection{Reduced Communication Extension}
\input{extended_protocol}

\subsection{Efficient Wire Labels Consistency Check} 

In base protocol, Figure~\ref{fig:baseprotocol}, we execute a new instance of
private-set-intersection-cardinality (PSI-C) protocol for every input
bit of the circuit, which is expensive.  We present a more efficient wire
labels consistency checking protocol in Figure~\ref{fig:label_consistency}. 

This protocol uses private-set-intersection (PSI) from~\cite{Pinkas0Z14} as
opposed to private-set-intersection-cardinality (PSI-C) and only \broker learns
the intersection.  Running PSI alone cannot detect if a publisher sends valid
labels for different input bits, e.g., both labels $w_0$ and $w_1$ for input
bit $b$ of $C$ to \garbler and $w'_{b'}$ label for a different input bit $b'$
of $C$ to \broker. To address this issue, we use PSI over masked labels.
\garbler and \broker shares a truly random seed $s''$ with the first message of
the PSI protocol.  \garbler and \broker generates a pseudorandom mask $r_b$ for
each input bit $b$ of $C$ from this seed; \broker computes masked labels $w_b
\xor r_b$ for input bit $b$ and \garbler computes masked labels $w_0 \xor r_b$
and $w_1 \xor r_b$ for each bit $b$. \broker learns all the consistent wire
labels and requests \garbler to hard-wire nullifying values for all publishers
with at least $1$ inconsistent wire label. 

\input{input_consistency_protocol}


\paragraph{Garbled Circuit XOR Compatibility.}


* What if one publisher doesn't send wire labels. After timeout the broker can
inform the \garbler and it will use zero for such values in the circuit.

\improvement{We can hide $C$ using universal circuits.}
\unsure{Who forms the topics? Publishers, clients, or broker?}


\improvement{Using cut and choose for malicious security}

\unsure{What is our current model? Are publishers, subscribers malicious?}

\improvement{A publisher can always input wrong data, but there is nothing that
can be done for this? May be it could be detected if it is creating a real
problem.}

\improvement{A subscribing entity can setup it's own \garbler. First we explain
with \garbler as a separate tntity and then later explain how it can be
eliminated by transfering it's functionality to subscribers. Similary, we can
transfer some functionality to publishers. Which one of them is better?}
